each report I'm Amy Goodman we are on
the road in Detroit demolition crews
here are planning to tear down 10,000
residential buildings over the next four
years that the city is deemed dangerous
but as old structures are coming down
the city's redefining itself in other
ways an estimated 20 to 30 percent of
the city's Lots
are vacant there's a growing urban
agriculture movement that community
groups are using to reclaim Detroit
several farms currently exist within the
city and there are hundreds more
community school and family gardens
d-town farm is one of the biggest urban
farms in Detroit it was founded by the
Detroit black community food security
network a coalition of organizations and
individuals working to build food
security in Detroit's black community
Mallika kini is the chair of the group
he gave us a tour of d-town farm
welcome to detail farm the town farm is
a community self-determination project
operated by the Detroit black community
food security network and this is a two
acre site inside of a city-owned park
this is inside of Rouge Park which is
the largest park in the city of Detroit
and so we have obtained a ten year
license agreement to create a model
organic farm here in the city of Detroit
and so what we're doing is we're showing
how unused and underutilized land and
the city of Detroit can be put to
productive use both to create greater
access to fresh produce also to mobilize
people to work on their own behalf and
also to to again demonstrate to people
how land in the city we have an
abundance of land which is either not
being used or being underutilized how
that land can be put to productive use
we have so far we've got two types of
kale planted curly leaf kale and what we
call dinosaur kale lacinato kale we have
onions planted we have chives planted
we've got yellow squash planted we've
got Tomatoes we've got lettuce we've got
watermelon peas and a few other things
ultimately we have 37 different things
planted
community food security is a concept
that basically means that a community
has adequate amounts of culturally
appropriate food that's easily
accessible by people and you know we
like to add on that's grown by
sustainable means so when a community is
in that condition we consider to be food
secure if any of those elements are
missing we can sit at the community to
be food insecure Detroit has been
designated as a food desert by Mara
Gallagher who came in did research in
2007 and she defined a food desert as a
place where residents have to travel
twice as far to get to a major grocer as
they do to get to what she calls a
fringe food location or what we call in
Detroit a party store so we have this
real serious problem in Detroit with the
lack of access to fresh and healthy
produce which has tremendous health
implications so we have lots of problems
in Detroit with obesity both childhood
and adult obesity high blood pressure
diabetes and other diseases which are
controllable by diet there used to be
when I was growing up in Detroit at
least six or seven major supermarkets
national supermarkets in the city as of
2007 when farmer Jack left the city
there there are no major chains in the
city so there are smaller markets but
often the quality of the food sold in
the city of Detroit is a diminished
quality when compared to the quality of
the food is sold and the ring of suburbs
surrounding Detroit we're black
self-determination is frankly and
Detroit is a at least 85 or perhaps 90%
african-american city so any plan being
proposed in relationship to urban
agriculture in Detroit must benefit the
majority population we're not interested
in plans that come in where the
corporate sector comes in it only uses
the majority population as workers we're
concerned about control and ownership
and so this is an example of a an
agricultural project which is controlled
by African Americans and where we're
able to control the revenue generated
from this farm and we want to model not
only the growing techniques
amano the kind of social and political
economic dynamics that we think are
appropriate for a city like Detroit part
of the challenge we have with organizing
african-americans for this work is that
many of our people associate this work
with enriching somebody else associated
with slavery or sharecropping both of
which enriched White's through our labor
and part of what we're doing is
reframing agriculture for African
Americans so that we can again see it as
an act of self determination and self
empowerment as as opposed to an act
where our labor is exploited to enrich
someone else what I hope to see is a
ramped up on increased urban agriculture
movement in the city of Detroit I hope
to see more understanding of the value
of this movement by the political
leadership within the city but most
importantly we think is not so much even
in the political leadership but what's
most important is the people being
mobilized in the people's consciousness
being raised so that they see this as
being a way to work on their own behalf
once people are mobilized and see that
they can begin to work for their own
benefit then that's what holds
politicians accountable if people aren't
mobilized and able to speak on their own
behalf and act on their own behalf then
politicians come in and do whatever they
want to do so what's most important
always is the people being conscious and
mobilized and that's what that's what
really helps to shape reality Mallika
Keaney is the chair of the Detroit black
community food security Network special
thanks to Democracy Now is Nicole
Salazar too many long